src/app/[locale]/work/projects/en/building-once-ui-a-customizable-design-system.mdx, before:

---
title: "Vision for a all-in-one rental platform"
publishedAt: "2024-04-08"
summary: "How I led Azibo from a rent collection app to a full-service all-in-one rental platform."
images:
  - "/images/projects/project-01/azibo-all-in-one.jpg"
team:
  - name: "Josh Van Lente"
    role: "Product Manager"
    avatar: "/images/avatar.jpeg"
    linkedIn: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/josh-van-lente/"
---

## Overview

Development of a flexible and highly customizable design system using Next.js for front-end and Figma for design collaboration.
dd
## Key Features

- **Component Library**: Built a set of modular, reusable UI components using React and styled-components in Next.js, focusing on accessibility and responsiveness.
- **Theming and Customization**: Integrated a theming system that allows easy switching and customization of color palettes, typography, and layout styles using CSS variables and Figma tokens.
- **Figma Integration**: Collaborated closely with designers by setting up a shared design library in Figma. This library was synchronized with the codebase, ensuring design handoffs were seamless and that design tokens remained consistent across both platforms.
- **Documentation and Usage Guidelines**: Developed comprehensive documentation with Storybook to showcase components, usage patterns, and best practices, ensuring the design system is easy to adopt by other teams.

## Technologies Used

- **Next.js**: For fast, server-rendered React applications.
- **Figma**: For creating and managing design assets and prototypes.
- **Styled-Components**: For styling React components with a modular, themable approach.
- **Storybook**: For building an interactive, documented component library.

## Challenges and Learnings

One key challenge was balancing the need for flexibility with the desire to maintain design consistency. The solution involved creating well-defined design tokens and establishing clear guidelines for when and how components could be customized. Additionally, setting up effective collaboration workflows between designers and developers using Figma and Git was a learning experience that greatly improved the process.

## Outcome

The design system is now actively used across multiple projects, leading to faster development cycles, fewer design inconsistencies, and improved collaboration between design and development teams. It has become a foundation for scaling our products efficiently while ensuring a cohesive user experience.

Commit message:

docs: update case study content

src/app/[locale]/work/projects/en/building-once-ui-a-customizable-design-system.mdx, after:

---
title: "Vision for a all-in-one rental platform"
publishedAt: "2024-04-08"
summary: "How I led Azibo from a rent collection app to a full-service all-in-one rental platform."
images:
  - "/images/projects/project-01/azibo-all-in-one.jpg"
team:
  - name: "Josh Van Lente"
    role: "Product Manager"
    avatar: "/images/avatar.jpeg"
    linkedIn: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/josh-van-lente/"
---

## Context

When I joined Azibo, it was primarily a rent collection application, excelling in that niche but facing limitations for long-term growth and monetization. Recognizing this, I envisioned transforming Azibo into a comprehensive, all-in-one rental management platform. However, internal opinions varied, with some advocating a narrow focus on rent collection to serve existing users.
## Challenges

-	**Internal Resistance**: Stakeholders lacked a cohesive product vision, leading to incremental improvements rather than transformative innovation.
-	**Market Competition**: A growing number of standalone landlord tools meant Azibo needed to address landlords’ needs holistically to remain competitive.

## Solution

1.	**Defining a Clear Product Vision**: I articulated the full spectrum of landlords’ needs, outlined the tools they relied on, and demonstrated the value of an all-in-one platform where each feature complemented the rest.
2.	**Developing a Strategic Roadmap**: I conducted user surveys, analyzed competitors, and proposed a phased plan to iteratively deliver interconnected products. Each release added independent value while building toward a cohesive suite.
3.	**Leading as a Player-Coach**: I balanced leadership and hands-on contributions, leading a pod of engineers and designers, as well as, guiding a team of product managers and quality assurance professionals to execute the vision.
## Outcomes

The transformation I led resulted in measurable success:
-	**Revenue and Monetization Growth**: Monetized users increased 2.8x, and gross margin per user grew by 3.5x during my tenure.
-	**Expanded Product Portfolio**: Azibo now offers a complete range of landlord tools, including tenant screening, digital lease management, financial tools, maintenance request tracking, document storage, and bookkeeping.
-	**Positive Customer Feedback**: Testimonials consistently highlight Azibo’s ease of use, comprehensive features, and rapid feature rollout.
## Key Takeaways

1.	**Visionary Leadership Drives Change**: My ability to identify and advocate for a transformative opportunity, despite differing views, was pivotal to Azibo’s evolution.
2.	**Comprehensive Solutions Create Value**: By addressing the full range of landlord needs, Azibo became an indispensable platform for its users.
3.	**Product-Led Growth Accelerates Success**: Prioritizing value through the product itself fueled user acquisition, retention, and revenue growth.

This case demonstrates the impact of aligning visionary leadership with a well-executed strategy to drive innovation, growth, and user satisfaction.
